# 26. Remove Duplicates from Sorted Array
 **<font color=#00B086>Difficulty: Easy</font>**
 > URL
 * https://leetcode.com/problems/remove-duplicates-from-sorted-array/
 > Description

 * Given a sorted array nums, remove the duplicates **in-place** such that each element appear only once and return the new length.
Do not allocate extra space for another array, you must do this by **modifying the input array** in-place with $O(1)$ extra memory.
 ## Example 1:
    Given nums = [1,1,2],

    Your function should return length = 2, with the first two elements of nums being 1 and 2 respectively.

    It doesn't matter what you leave beyond the returned length.

## Example 2:

    Given nums = [0,0,1,1,1,2,2,3,3,4],

    Your function should return length = 5, with the first five elements of nums being modified to 0, 1, 2, 3, and 4 respectively.

    It doesn't matter what values are set beyond the returned length.


 ## Solutions
 ---
 > Approach 1: Two Pointers (Indices)

Since the array is already sorted, we can keep two pointers $i$ and $j$, where $i$ is the slow-runner while $j$ is the fast-runner. As long as $nums[i]=nums[j]$, we increment $j$ to skip the duplicate.

When we encounter $nums[j]≠nums[i]$, the duplicate run has ended so we must copy its value to $nums[i+1]$. $i$ is then incremented and we repeat the same process again until $j$ reaches the end of array.

```cpp
class Solution {
public:
    int removeDuplicates(vector<int>& nums) {
        if (nums.size() == 0)
            return 0;

        size_t j = 0;
        for (size_t i = 1; i < nums.size(); i++)
            if (nums[i] != nums[j])
                nums[++j] = nums[i];

        return ++j;
    }
};
```
 #### Complexity Analysis


 * Time complexity : $O(n)$. <br/>Assume that *n* is the length of array. Each of *i* and *j* traverses at most nnn steps.

 * Space complexity : $O(1)$.
